tests: Add a new benchmark test for multicore idle (#15952)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: tests/benchmarks/multicore/idle/README.rst

  This configuration uses :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr-xip` and enables :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_XIP` on the PPR core.
  It can be built as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpuppr_xip .

.. include:: /includes/nRF54H20_erase_UICR.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the test to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

      1. |connect_terminal|
      #. Reset the kit.
      #. Observe the console output for both cores:

         * For the application core, the output should be as follows:

            .. code-block:: console

               *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
               Multi-core PM test on nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
               Hello world from nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
               ...

         * For the remote core, the output should be as follows:

            .. code-block:: console

               *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
               Hello world from nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpunet

>                Hello world from nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpunet

Reviewer: messages need update

:orphan:

.. _multicore_idle_test:

Multicore idle test
###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The test benchmarks the idle behavior of an application that runs on multiple cores.

Requirements
************

The test supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

Overview
********

> The test demonstrates how to build a multicore idle application with :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test demonstrates how to build a multicore idle application with :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild`.
```

> When building with Zephyr sysbuild, the build system adds child images based on the options selected in the project's additional configuration and build files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building with sysbuild, the build system adds child images based on the options selected in the project's additional configuration and build files.
```

This test shows how to inform the build system about dedicated sources for additional images.
The test comes with the following additional files:

> * :file:`Kconfig.sysbuild` - This file is used to add Sysbuild configuration that is passed to all the images.
>   ``SB_CONFIG`` is the prefix for sysbuild's Kconfig options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :file:`Kconfig.sysbuild` - This file is used to add :ref:`sysbuild Kconfig options <configuration_system_overview_sysbuild>` that are passed to all the images.
```

  You can also add the dependencies for the images if required.

Both the application and remote cores use the same :file:`main.c` that prints the name of the DK on which the application is programmed.

Building and running
********************

.. |test path| replace:: :file:`tests/benchmarks/multicore/idle`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_test.txt

The remote board needs to be specified using ``SB_CONFIG_REMOTE_BOARD``.
As shown below, it is recommended to use configuration setups from :file:`testcase.yaml` using the ``-T`` option to build the test.

nRF5340 DK
  You can build the test for application and network cores as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf5340dk_cpuapp_cpunet .

nRF54H20 DK
  You can build the test for application and radio cores as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpurad .

  You can build the test for application and PPR cores as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpuppr .

>   Note that :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr` is used in the configuration above to automatically launch PPR core from the application core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  .. note::
    
     :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr` is used in the configuration above to automatically launch PPR core from the application core.
```

>   An additional configuration setup is provided to execute code directly from MRAM on the PPR core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  An additional configuration setup is provided to execute code directly from the non-volatile memory (MRAM) on the PPR core.
```

  This configuration uses :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr-xip` and enables :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_XIP` on the PPR core.
  It can be built as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpuppr_xip .

.. include:: /includes/nRF54H20_erase_UICR.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the test to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

>       1. |connect_terminal|
>       #. Reset the kit.
>       #. Observe the console output for both cores:

Reviewer 2: Indent not needed.
```suggestion
1. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Observe the console output for both cores:
```
Please update the lines that follow accordingly.

  You can build the test for application and radio cores as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpurad .

  You can build the test for application and PPR cores as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpuppr .

  .. note::

     :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr` is used in the configuration above to automatically launch PPR core from the application core.

  An additional configuration setup is provided to execute code directly from the non-volatile memory (MRAM) on the PPR core.
  This configuration uses :ref:`zephyr:nordic-ppr-xip` and enables :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_XIP` on the PPR core.
  It can be built as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T benchmarks.multicore.idle.nrf54h20dk_cpuapp_cpuppr_xip .

.. include:: /includes/nRF54H20_erase_UICR.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the test to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

1. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Observe the console output for both cores:

>          * For the application core, the output should be as follows:
> 
>             .. code-block:: console
> 
>                *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
>                Multi-core idle test on nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
> 	       Multi-core idle test iteration 0
> 	       Multi-core idle test iteration 1
>                ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * For the application core, the output should be as follows:

     .. code-block:: console

       *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
       Multi-core idle test on nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp
       Multi-core idle test iteration 0
       Multi-core idle test iteration 1
       ...
```

>          * For the remote core, the output should be as follows:
> 
>             .. code-block:: console
> 
>                *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
>                Multi-core idle test on nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpunet
> 	       Multi-core idle test iteration 0
> 	       Multi-core idle test iteration 1
>                ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * For the remote core, the output should be as follows:

     .. code-block:: console

        *** Booting nRF Connect SDK zephyr-v3.5.0-3517-g9458a1aaf744 ***
        Multi-core idle test on nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpunet
        Multi-core idle test iteration 0
        Multi-core idle test iteration 1
        ...
```
